# Movies-ETL

For this module, the Extract, Transform, Load (ETL) process was used to create multiple data pipelines which were subsequently uploaded to SQL. This time, I used the ETL process to help transform my data. My Movies-ETL uses Kaggle data. The Kaggle dataset pulls from the MovieLens dataset which has millions of files with details from the TMDB Movie database. I downloaded the zip file from Kaggle, extracted, and decompressed the CSV files. I only used the movies_metadata.csv and ratings.csv files. The data provided exists in a few different places and my first step is to clean and restructure the data. I then instituted the three, unique phases: Extract, Transform, and Load. First, I scraped Wikipedia data stored as a JSON, and Kaggle data stored in CSVs. Second, I used Python and Pandas to explore, document, and perform the data transformation. Thirdly, I loaded the data into a PostgreSQL table.

My five assumptions:
1) Both title options from the data look consistent, but due to my observation concerning the Kaggle data, I felt more confident in the title name consistency as I was able to confirm zero missing titles in the Kaggle data.
2) The Kaggle data didn't have any missing release dates so I kept the Kaggle information.
3) The budget_wiki and budget_kaggle are both numeric values so I used a scatter plot to compare the values: I found that the Wikipedia data has more outliers versus the Kaggle data. Upon further review, I found that in the Kaggle columnm, there are quite a few movies without key pieces of information. So I used Wikipedia’s data.
4) Due to the Kaggle consistency in data, and the difficulty in translating the inconsistent Wikipedia data into the same unique format I decided to drop the Wikipedia data.
5) Most runtimes were fairly similar in time; however, the Wikipedia data did have some outliers, so the Kaggle data is assumed to be a better option in the merge. Unfortunately, I saw from the scatter plots that Kaggle has 0 for the runtime but Wikipedia actually had the data, so I used the Wikipedia data.
